_faq/quantum-computing-is-coming.md, before:

---
title:  "Quantum Computing is Coming"
ref: ['quantum-computing-is-far-away']
category: statement
---

## Here's what you need to know

- NISQ Era devices are on the horizon[^NISQ].
- Quantum computing is finally on the verge of becoming commercially useful[^COMM].
- Quantum Computing is developing at a steady pace[^PACE].
- It presents revolutionary opportunities for AI[^AI], chemistry[^CHEM], materials science[^MATERIALS], finance[^FINANCE], and more. 
- The USA[^USA], China[^CHINA], EU[^EU] and other nation states are investing heavily into quantum computing. 
- Tech giants such as Google[^GOOGLE], IBM[^IBM], Intel[^INTEL], Rigetti[^RIGETTI] and Microsoft[^MICROSOFT] are already competing for market share.
- Not all research is public[^PRIVATE]

As a byproduct of this global technilogical arms race, quantum computers powerful enough to break modern cryptography are expected to exist within 10-20 years, if not sooner.


[^NISQ]: Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) Computers

	- [Quantum Computing in the NISQ era and beyond](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.00862.pdf), John Preskill, July 2018, Institute for Quantum Information and Matter and Walter Burke Institute for Theoretical Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena
	- [We've Entered a New Era in Quantum Computing](https://gizmodo.com/weve-entered-a-new-era-of-quantum-computing-1821807439), Ryan F. Mandelbaum, May 2018, Gizmodo

[^COMM]: Commercialization

	- In January 2019, [IBM presented it's first commercial quantum computer](https://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/3068921/ibms-q-system-one-is-the-worlds-first-commercial-quantum-computer). It’s not an exiting step if we’re looking at the technical aspects of this particular quantum computer. 
	- In December 2018, a month earlier [IonQ broke the record for number of Qubits: they announced a 79 qubits quantum computer.](https://www.techspot.com/news/77887-new-type-quantum-computer-has-smashed-every-record.html)

[^AI]: Machine Learning & AI
	- [Google Quantum AI Research Effort](https://ai.google/research/teams/applied-science/quantum-ai/) 

[^CHEM]: Chemistry & Biology

	- [How Quantum Computing is Enabling Breakthroughs in Chemistry](https://singularityhub.com/2018/11/15/how-quantum-computing-is-enabling-breakthroughs-in-chemistry/#sm.00000bpgtz1n09cnurehf6jeoc88e), Mark Jackson, Nov 2018, Singularity Hub
	- [Trapped-ion quantum computer does chemistry calculations for the first time](https://www.chemistryworld.com/news/trapped-ion-quantum-computer-does-chemistry-calculations-for-the-first-time/3009296.article), Philip Ball, July 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry

[^PACE]: Quantum computing pace of development

	- 2010: **3 qubit** quantum computer calculated the energy spectrum of molecular hydrogen to high precision 
	- 2016: [IBM has **5 qubits** you can work with in a cloud](https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/qx/experience)
	- 2017: [IBM had a **16 qubit** quantum computer](https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/52403.wss)
	- 2017: [Intel develops a **17-qubit** chip](https://newsroom.intel.com/news/intel-delivers-17-qubit-superconducting-chip-advanced-packaging-qutech/)
	- 2017: [IBM reveals a working **50-qubit** quantum computer that can maintain its quantum state for 90 microseconds](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/609451/ibm-raises-the-bar-with-a-50-qubit-quantum-computer/)
	- 2017: Google announced to have a **51 qubit** quantum computer
	- 2018: [Google announced **72 quits**. From the article “A Preview of Bristlecone, Google’s New Quantum Processor”, March 5, 2018 ](https://research.googleblog.com/2018/03/a-preview-of-bristlecone-googles-new.html)
	- 2018: [Intel announces a new **49-qubit** quantum chip](https://newsroom.intel.com/news/intel-advances-quantum-neuromorphic-computing-research/)
	- 2018: [IonQ has a **79 qubit** quantum computer](https://www.techspot.com/news/77887-new-type-quantum-computer-has-smashed-every-record.html)
	- 2019: [Neven’s law states that quantum computers are improving at a “doubly exponential” rate. If it holds, quantum supremacy is around the corner](https://www.quantamagazine.org/does-nevens-law-describe-quantum-computings-rise-20190618/)


[^MATERIALS]: Materials Science

	- [Quantum computer simulates two types of bizarre materials](https://www.sciencenews.org/article/quantum-computer-d-wave-simulations), Emily Conover, August 2018, ScienceNews

[^FINANCE]: Quantum Computing in Finance

	- [Quantum Computing in Finance](https://meetingsandevents.jpmorganchase.com/metron/(medialibrary)/55216dc5-b073-46a4-ad56-76a32f8a1939/meetings/32ade8db-aa6a-4b5a-94e5-e70da0081272/documents/Monday_1230_Colin_W.pdf), Colin P. Williams, D-Wave Systems, 2015

[^USA]: The USA

	- [At Last America is Moving on Quantum](https://www.forbes.com/sites/arthurherman/2018/08/20/at-last-america-is-moving-on-quantum/) - Forbes 
	- [The quantum computing race the US can’t afford to lose](https://thenextweb.com/contributors/2018/09/01/quantum-race-united-states-must-compete/) - TheNextWeb 

[^CHINA]: China

	- [Chinese scientists broke a quantum computing record](https://www.abacusnews.com/future-tech/chinese-scientists-broke-quantum-computing-record/article/2155740), Karen Chiu, Jul 2018, abacusnews
	- [The man turning China into a quantum superpower](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/612596/the-man-turning-china-into-a-quantum-superpower/), Martin Giles, December 2018, MIT Technology Review
	- [China is about to pump $10 Billion in a research centre](https://www.nextgov.com/emerging-tech/2018/07/pentagon-seeks-edge-quantum-computing/149718/), Jack Corrigan, July 2018

[^EU]: EU

	- [Quantum Flagship](https://qt.eu/)
	- [Europe’s billion-euro quantum flagship hands out first grants](https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2018/10/europe-s-billion-euro-quantum-flagship-hands-out-first-grants), Edwin Cartlidge, October 2018, Sciencemag

[^GOOGLE]: Google
	- "It should be about 5 years to 1000 qubit chips with superconducting technology. It should be about 10 years to million qubit chips." From the article [A Preview of Bristlecone, Google’s New Quantum Processor](https://www.nextbigfuture.com/2018/06/intel-superconducting-quantum-technology-could-push-to-1000-qubits-by-2023-and-silicon-spin-qubits-to-1-million-qubits-by-2028.html), june 10, 2018 
	- [Google reclaims quantum computer crown with 72 qubit processor](https://thenextweb.com/artificial-intelligence/2018/03/06/google-reclaims-quantum-computer-crown-with-72-qubit-processor/), Tristan Greene, March 2018, TheNextWeb
	- [Google and NASA Tackle Quantum Supremacy](https://www.hpcwire.com/2018/11/06/google-and-nasa-tackle-quantum-supremacy/), John Russel, November 2018, HPC Wire
	- [“And a million-physical-qubit system, whose general computing applications are still difficult to even fathom? It’s conceivable, says Neven, “on the inside of 10 years.”](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/603495/10-breakthrough-technologies-2017-practical-quantum-computers/), Harmut Nevan, Head of Google's quantum computing effort
	- ["Five years from now, we will have a commercial quantum computer"](https://www.barrons.com/articles/microsoft-we-have-the-qubits-you-want-1519434417)

[^IBM]: IBM

	- [IBM believes quantum computers will be mainstream in 5 years](https://www.research.ibm.com/5-in-5/quantum-computing/)
	- [IBM Q Experience](https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/)
	- [IBM unveils its first commercial quantum computer](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2189909-ibm-unveils-its-first-commercial-quantum-computer/), January 2019, NewScientist

[^MICROSOFT]: Microsoft

	- [Microsoft Empowering the Quantum Revolution](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/quantum/)
	- [Here's why Microsoft is 'all-in' on quantum computing](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/heres-why-microsoft-is-all-in-on-quantum-computing/), Laurel Deppen, June 2018, TechRepublic

[^INTEL]: Intel

	- [Intel's New Path to Quantum Computing](https://spectrum.ieee.org/nanoclast/computing/hardware/intels-new-path-to-quantum-computing), Samuel K. Moore and Amy Nordrum, June 2018, IEEE Spectrum
	- [Intel is now capable of producing full silicon wafers of quantum computing chips](https://www.techspot.com/news/75020-intel-now-capable-producing-full-silicon-wafers-quantum.html), Greg Synek, June 2018, Techspot

[^RIGETTI]: Rigetti

	- ["128 qubits in the next 12 months"](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-08-07/quantum-computers-today-aren-t-very-useful-that-could-change), 2018, Bloomberg

[^PRIVATE]: Private documents

	- [In 2014 documents leaked by Edward Snowden confirm the Penetrating Hard Targets project, by which the National Security Agency seeks to develop a quantum computing capability for cryptography purposes.](http://www.kurzweilai.net/nsa-seeks-to-develop-quantum-computer-to-crack-nearly-every-kind-of-encryption)
	- [NSA seeks to build quantum computer that could crack most types of encryption](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-seeks-to-build-quantum-computer-that-could-crack-most-types-of-encryption/2014/01/02/8fff297e-7195-11e3-8def-a33011492df2_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.51c3b147ace4)

*[NISQ]: Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum

Commit message:

Add point about material science breakthrough
Added source for UTe2 discovery

_faq/quantum-computing-is-coming.md, after:

---
title:  "Quantum Computing is Coming"
ref: ['quantum-computing-is-far-away']
category: statement
---

## Here's what you need to know

- NISQ Era devices are on the horizon[^NISQ].
- Quantum computing is finally on the verge of becoming commercially useful[^COMM].
- Quantum Computing is developing at a steady pace[^PACE].
- It presents revolutionary opportunities for AI[^AI], chemistry[^CHEM], materials science[^MATERIALS], finance[^FINANCE], and more. 
- The USA[^USA], China[^CHINA], EU[^EU] and other nation states are investing heavily into quantum computing. 
- Tech giants such as Google[^GOOGLE], IBM[^IBM], Intel[^INTEL], Rigetti[^RIGETTI] and Microsoft[^MICROSOFT] are already competing for market share.
- Not all research is public[^PRIVATE]
- Breakthroughs in related scientific fields (like material science) occur frequently, and could drastically shorten the timeline for a powerful universal QC [^BREAKTHRU]

As a byproduct of this global technilogical arms race, quantum computers powerful enough to break modern cryptography are expected to exist within 10-20 years, if not sooner.


[^NISQ]: Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) Computers

	- [Quantum Computing in the NISQ era and beyond](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.00862.pdf), John Preskill, July 2018, Institute for Quantum Information and Matter and Walter Burke Institute for Theoretical Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena
	- [We've Entered a New Era in Quantum Computing](https://gizmodo.com/weve-entered-a-new-era-of-quantum-computing-1821807439), Ryan F. Mandelbaum, May 2018, Gizmodo

[^COMM]: Commercialization

	- In January 2019, [IBM presented it's first commercial quantum computer](https://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/3068921/ibms-q-system-one-is-the-worlds-first-commercial-quantum-computer). It’s not an exiting step if we’re looking at the technical aspects of this particular quantum computer. 
	- In December 2018, a month earlier [IonQ broke the record for number of Qubits: they announced a 79 qubits quantum computer.](https://www.techspot.com/news/77887-new-type-quantum-computer-has-smashed-every-record.html)

[^AI]: Machine Learning & AI
	- [Google Quantum AI Research Effort](https://ai.google/research/teams/applied-science/quantum-ai/) 

[^CHEM]: Chemistry & Biology

	- [How Quantum Computing is Enabling Breakthroughs in Chemistry](https://singularityhub.com/2018/11/15/how-quantum-computing-is-enabling-breakthroughs-in-chemistry/#sm.00000bpgtz1n09cnurehf6jeoc88e), Mark Jackson, Nov 2018, Singularity Hub
	- [Trapped-ion quantum computer does chemistry calculations for the first time](https://www.chemistryworld.com/news/trapped-ion-quantum-computer-does-chemistry-calculations-for-the-first-time/3009296.article), Philip Ball, July 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry

[^PACE]: Quantum computing pace of development

	- 2010: **3 qubit** quantum computer calculated the energy spectrum of molecular hydrogen to high precision 
	- 2016: [IBM has **5 qubits** you can work with in a cloud](https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/qx/experience)
	- 2017: [IBM had a **16 qubit** quantum computer](https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/52403.wss)
	- 2017: [Intel develops a **17-qubit** chip](https://newsroom.intel.com/news/intel-delivers-17-qubit-superconducting-chip-advanced-packaging-qutech/)
	- 2017: [IBM reveals a working **50-qubit** quantum computer that can maintain its quantum state for 90 microseconds](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/609451/ibm-raises-the-bar-with-a-50-qubit-quantum-computer/)
	- 2017: Google announced to have a **51 qubit** quantum computer
	- 2018: [Google announced **72 quits**. From the article “A Preview of Bristlecone, Google’s New Quantum Processor”, March 5, 2018 ](https://research.googleblog.com/2018/03/a-preview-of-bristlecone-googles-new.html)
	- 2018: [Intel announces a new **49-qubit** quantum chip](https://newsroom.intel.com/news/intel-advances-quantum-neuromorphic-computing-research/)
	- 2018: [IonQ has a **79 qubit** quantum computer](https://www.techspot.com/news/77887-new-type-quantum-computer-has-smashed-every-record.html)
	- 2019: [Neven’s law states that quantum computers are improving at a “doubly exponential” rate. If it holds, quantum supremacy is around the corner](https://www.quantamagazine.org/does-nevens-law-describe-quantum-computings-rise-20190618/)


[^MATERIALS]: Materials Science

	- [Quantum computer simulates two types of bizarre materials](https://www.sciencenews.org/article/quantum-computer-d-wave-simulations), Emily Conover, August 2018, ScienceNews

[^FINANCE]: Quantum Computing in Finance

	- [Quantum Computing in Finance](https://meetingsandevents.jpmorganchase.com/metron/(medialibrary)/55216dc5-b073-46a4-ad56-76a32f8a1939/meetings/32ade8db-aa6a-4b5a-94e5-e70da0081272/documents/Monday_1230_Colin_W.pdf), Colin P. Williams, D-Wave Systems, 2015

[^USA]: The USA

	- [At Last America is Moving on Quantum](https://www.forbes.com/sites/arthurherman/2018/08/20/at-last-america-is-moving-on-quantum/) - Forbes 
	- [The quantum computing race the US can’t afford to lose](https://thenextweb.com/contributors/2018/09/01/quantum-race-united-states-must-compete/) - TheNextWeb 

[^CHINA]: China

	- [Chinese scientists broke a quantum computing record](https://www.abacusnews.com/future-tech/chinese-scientists-broke-quantum-computing-record/article/2155740), Karen Chiu, Jul 2018, abacusnews
	- [The man turning China into a quantum superpower](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/612596/the-man-turning-china-into-a-quantum-superpower/), Martin Giles, December 2018, MIT Technology Review
	- [China is about to pump $10 Billion in a research centre](https://www.nextgov.com/emerging-tech/2018/07/pentagon-seeks-edge-quantum-computing/149718/), Jack Corrigan, July 2018

[^EU]: EU

	- [Quantum Flagship](https://qt.eu/)
	- [Europe’s billion-euro quantum flagship hands out first grants](https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2018/10/europe-s-billion-euro-quantum-flagship-hands-out-first-grants), Edwin Cartlidge, October 2018, Sciencemag

[^GOOGLE]: Google
	- "It should be about 5 years to 1000 qubit chips with superconducting technology. It should be about 10 years to million qubit chips." From the article [A Preview of Bristlecone, Google’s New Quantum Processor](https://www.nextbigfuture.com/2018/06/intel-superconducting-quantum-technology-could-push-to-1000-qubits-by-2023-and-silicon-spin-qubits-to-1-million-qubits-by-2028.html), june 10, 2018 
	- [Google reclaims quantum computer crown with 72 qubit processor](https://thenextweb.com/artificial-intelligence/2018/03/06/google-reclaims-quantum-computer-crown-with-72-qubit-processor/), Tristan Greene, March 2018, TheNextWeb
	- [Google and NASA Tackle Quantum Supremacy](https://www.hpcwire.com/2018/11/06/google-and-nasa-tackle-quantum-supremacy/), John Russel, November 2018, HPC Wire
	- [“And a million-physical-qubit system, whose general computing applications are still difficult to even fathom? It’s conceivable, says Neven, “on the inside of 10 years.”](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/603495/10-breakthrough-technologies-2017-practical-quantum-computers/), Harmut Nevan, Head of Google's quantum computing effort
	- ["Five years from now, we will have a commercial quantum computer"](https://www.barrons.com/articles/microsoft-we-have-the-qubits-you-want-1519434417)

[^IBM]: IBM

	- [IBM believes quantum computers will be mainstream in 5 years](https://www.research.ibm.com/5-in-5/quantum-computing/)
	- [IBM Q Experience](https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/)
	- [IBM unveils its first commercial quantum computer](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2189909-ibm-unveils-its-first-commercial-quantum-computer/), January 2019, NewScientist

[^MICROSOFT]: Microsoft

	- [Microsoft Empowering the Quantum Revolution](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/quantum/)
	- [Here's why Microsoft is 'all-in' on quantum computing](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/heres-why-microsoft-is-all-in-on-quantum-computing/), Laurel Deppen, June 2018, TechRepublic

[^INTEL]: Intel

	- [Intel's New Path to Quantum Computing](https://spectrum.ieee.org/nanoclast/computing/hardware/intels-new-path-to-quantum-computing), Samuel K. Moore and Amy Nordrum, June 2018, IEEE Spectrum
	- [Intel is now capable of producing full silicon wafers of quantum computing chips](https://www.techspot.com/news/75020-intel-now-capable-producing-full-silicon-wafers-quantum.html), Greg Synek, June 2018, Techspot

[^RIGETTI]: Rigetti

	- ["128 qubits in the next 12 months"](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-08-07/quantum-computers-today-aren-t-very-useful-that-could-change), 2018, Bloomberg

[^PRIVATE]: Private documents

	- [In 2014 documents leaked by Edward Snowden confirm the Penetrating Hard Targets project, by which the National Security Agency seeks to develop a quantum computing capability for cryptography purposes.](http://www.kurzweilai.net/nsa-seeks-to-develop-quantum-computer-to-crack-nearly-every-kind-of-encryption)
	- [NSA seeks to build quantum computer that could crack most types of encryption](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-seeks-to-build-quantum-computer-that-could-crack-most-types-of-encryption/2014/01/02/8fff297e-7195-11e3-8def-a33011492df2_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.51c3b147ace4)
	
[^BREAKTHRU]: Scientific developments in related fields could drastically impact the Quantum Computing timeline

	- ["A potentially useful material for building quantum computers has been unearthed at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), whose scientists have found a superconductor that could sidestep one of the primary obstacles standing in the way of effective quantum logic circuits."](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2019/08/190815140843.htm)


*[NISQ]: Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum
